this video is gonna reach a very small
audience but I hope it's an audience
that cares for it appreciates it to some
extent I am voluntarily censoring the
video the video is gonna contain coarse
language it's gonna be the kind of video
that YouTube would not want to put
advertising on and it's gonna be 18 plus
why because I'm talking about the most
obvious element of vegan Keynes's
current repertoire that we all have to
endure as vegans and you know this isn't
something people ask me about it's
something people bluntly say to me all
the time earlier today I was talking to
a room of vegans 30 40 50
I didn't ask people older mature vegans
and someone just said flatly I hate
being in the same category like you know
you guys everybody say we have this guy
durianrider who's dragging the name but
it's just you know it wasn't the main
type of conversation but it came up
sincerely we're the guy said at one
point said look couldn't we come up with
a better definition a name can't we come
up with something I don't know all the
things I mean look we're partly talking
about a real world phenomenon a
political phenomenon and movement we are
partly talking about an internet
phenomenon right i I don't know if the
comic book youtubers wake up that way
they're like I just I just can't stand
making content in the same category as
those spider-man people can't the x-men
people in this product I don't know if
it runs that deep I don't know if one's
that deep for the videogame people that
the Nintendo and the Sony fans wish they
had separate platforms I doubt it
what why where does this come from you
know I had a bunch of people react very
positively to a simple and blunt
statement I made on Twitter
to paraphrase I said the other day the
current content from vegan gains has
zero educational value
and zero entertainment value if I wanted
to hear someone sit there and call
somebody a dumb [ __ ] and a dumb [ __ ] if
that was the level of analysis I was
interested in I would watch CNN
so I'm partly joking look I'm not
somebody who's opposed to the use of
coarse language in and of itself I think
one of the advantages we have over CNN
is that we can come on here on YouTube
and be really sincere and really
spontaneous and in a really unscripted
way share our feelings and if you've
watched this channel for long enough
you've seen me break down weeping four
or five times I don't know somebody in
my youtube audience is keeping track
it's a broken tail we figure out camera
um
that's a beautiful thing that's a
positive part of the content we have if
I were having a roundtable discussion
with five people and I spontaneously
said in the middle of it maybe in the
middle of a sincere reflection or
something I was always but oh my god you
know this idiot if I just said this with
with real hatred that's spontaneous way
I think that's completely legitimate
YouTube content well that's not all
you're saying well with vegan gains what
we have is this completely phony theater
of the absurd of him sitting down at his
desk Ashton was scripted public service
announcements sitting there and staring
into the camera with this [ __ ] action
figures look yes ladies and gentlemen um
or you might have watched this YouTube
video in it it might not have occurred
to you that this woman is a dumb [ __ ]
so let me give you this really useful
analysis I came up with uh let's just
watch this video and let me break it
down for you um
yes at this point the video I'm gonna
say dumb [ __ ] Oh who needs to hear this
like this the same function would be
better served if you're gonna do this
kind of dry sitting in front of human
you could play the clip and you could
sit there silent with your arms folded
you could sit there like if there's one
thing the audience knows or configurable
for themselves in those
if that level of analysis like someone
had dumb [ __ ]
now the other side of it I've talked
about this over the years maybe once a
year this comes up the role of sincerity
in YouTube video recording my best girl
with melissa is in the room here with me
Melissa will remember couple months ago
we came in from the gym and I was
exhausted and I didn't really feel into
a youtube video and this again linked to
vegan gains it's like oh I should do a
video talking about palm oil and ecology
and you know I just have nothing to say
I said here babe look sit down for two
minutes you know this is nothing I've
nothing to say him I just seem kind of
down and demoralizing disengaged watched
into this really passionate somewhat
vulgar you know this this performance
that you didn't see coming I mean you
really weren't you have like wow like I
did not see that coming you just said
like you really had nothing to say you
you felt like you know there was no
point sure the audience and then you
come on either that's real that's real
I'm really you know I'm really
passionate about ecology I'm really
passionate afforestation and in that
video it may seem like an overly
technical thing I'm drawing people's
attention to the hypocrisy of treating
palm oil plantations as completely
different from date plantations a date
grows on a date palm palm alder what's
what is the [ __ ] difference and you
know I really do swear a bit and and
stare in the camera you guys may think
that's camp fine you know I'm not here
to convince anyone but like the reason
I'm doing that is because it's really
real and the other thing is look we're
not all equal this is broadcasting and
we're all broadcasting from a different
platform with a different basis and
different options I wish I had a round
table of five people to do vegan videos
with I wish I could move on from sitting
here ranting alone to the camera this is
an anthropology concept this is really
like weapons of the weak who comes on
YouTube to talk about politics and
philosophy this way people who don't
have a better alternative and that's the
other thing with I mean it's true vegan
gains it's true if you're looking at
someone like Jake Paul like Jake Paul
and these other youtubers it's like look
I look at these the
crappy mainstream YouTube religio policy
look when you first started if this was
the only content you could do is film
yourself doing a spontaneous dumb prank
and screaming into the camera and this
kind of these kinds of antics fine but
now you have an audience of millions you
have a lot of income coming in you've
got a progress you've got to step it up
I think likewise you know if you see
someone go I see a lot of people on
YouTube who are still in high school you
see people who are in youtuber college
or even if you're older in middle age
where you have a full-time job you have
no time you have no reserves you have no
audience and all you can do is come on
camera and share your frustration and
maybe you've got nothing else to share
but to shout you know you jump [ __ ]
that's all you've got to do that's
that's pathetic but ok I relate to it
with vegan gains it's it's more
forgivable because this guy's this point
a highly successful earning a living
earning a significant living from this
and he is not putting in the effort to
progress beyond a level a level that
would be shameful even for like the
amazing atheist or Jacqueline clan and
his other crap you know you do not put
that much that much effort you know into
YouTube ok guys I wanna say one thing I
said this once to Isaac in a private
conversation conversation I once said to
Isaac you know nobody is more aware than
I am that my channel would have
continued to grow and get bigger and
bigger if I had stayed angry all the
time you know I knew the difference I've
done some videos about freely if you
don't know if really is don't Google you
don't want to know there once was an
influential person in Venus go freely I
did some videos but freely that were
really analytical and down-to-earth
there's one called the Wonder that was
freely I remember that's really just
discussing in an analytical way why did
people become members of this call what
did they believe in you know what was
the significance of the anti medical
establishment hysteria all the stuff of
a medical doctors you know really
getting into this in the morning look
away and I did videos where I sat there
and said you lying hypocrite with your
fake Ted
you know you know talent bummer that
rages in there right that's sincere and
it's finite I don't have another ten
videos to make that are angry that way
and and one genre video from my
perspective is is is to some extent
vindicated by the others look I really
have sunset I have feelings to share
I don't just that once here and I was
never attempted I never even considered
the option of of making rage into a
trope or a meme or an act no I mean
there was a time when I was I was alone
at university you know trying to make
the world a better place hoping to be
involved in vegan activism and not only
is there no legitimate vegan activism
for me to join in or get involved in I
look on the internet come here New Japan
what what is it that passes or vegan
activism it's this like orthorexia
Rexach weight-loss cult and hold these
lies and this woman with fake tits
who's telling you she's opposed to using
soap she's opposed to using shampoo
she's opposed to eating a non-organic
mango she's so come into the cult of
nature and yet there she is with her
fake tits from a you know your she's
against all kinds of legitimate medical
procedures and surgeries and yet you
have faked it it's not just faked it's
guys there was something here worth
ranting about and yeah you know there's
there a couple of videos were not for no
reason
I never made a video where I'm just
insulting this woman where I'm just
calling her an idiot or calling her a
dumb [ __ ] it's like there there really
was a reason there was a reason for the
fashion and it reflected my
powerlessness at that time also right
again sorry it's a it's like a meme and
anthropology you know weapons of the
week we look at the you know the
frustration of powerless powerlessness
of these people but at this point you
know vegan gains is is in a he's in a
real position of power if anything he's
the new freely he's in the position free
was in yeah you know what it's exactly
parallel I didn't even think of that the
guy who said to me today that he feels
ashamed to use the word vegan and he
wishes he wasn't in the same category
veganism that's like coming full circle
to about four years ago
where people said that about freely and
people said that about durianrider
because they were dragging the name of a
vegan to the mind there is no happy
ending to this video people talent is
scarce and you know if you want to see
somebody do better take a look in the
mirror because the future of veganism is
you and you and you and if you want
better YouTube content that I've been
able to produce in my five years of
playing this game
the alternative it's not Richard it's
not complaining about Richard the
alternative is you and you and you get
on camera get on skype with me I don't
give a [ __ ] send me an email let's make
something positive happen but if you
haven't tried and if you haven't failed
don't tell me you want better if you
ain't gonna do better that's what's up